

Dear Andreas,

I am glad to inform you that your submission has been accepted for a regular presentation. Instructions on how to prepare the video will be provided. Thank you very much for your contribution!

Below you may find the reviews for your submission.

Best,
Henning

SUBMISSION: 35
TITLE: On Model-Theoretic Strong Normalization for Truth-Table Natural Deduction


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 35
TITLE: On Model-Theoretic Strong Normalization for Truth-Table Natural Deduction
AUTHORS: Andreas Abel

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 3 (strong accept)
----- TEXT:

In the paper the method to derive natural deduction rules from
truth-tables of logical connectives introduced by Geuvers and Hurkens
is considered. The author studies beta-reduction and beta pi-reduction
for this system, where pi-reductions (permutation reductions) allow to
combine sequences of eliminations into a single elimination. The
strong normalization of beta pi-reduction is proved by adapting the
(bi)orthogonality method.


The submission is very suitable for TYPES 2021.



----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 35
TITLE: On Model-Theoretic Strong Normalization for Truth-Table Natural Deduction
AUTHORS: Andreas Abel

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 3 (strong accept)
----- TEXT:

This presentation reports on recently submitted work (to the Types
2020 proceedings) on proving strong normalization for the
constructive "natural deuction from truth tables" calculus by
Geuvers and Hurkens. This calculus is actually a family of
calculi: for a set of connectives, each defined by a truth table,
one derives the constructive natural deduction rules for these
connectives following a general pattern which also yields notions
of detour (beta-reduction) and permutation detour on natural
deductions. It has been shown that detour reduction is strongly
normalizing, using a translation to a parallel version of simply
type lambda calculus. The present paper (presentation) gives
direct proof, generalizing the model-theoretic (Tait saturated
sets style) proof from proposition logic. This is non-trivial,
because of the general shape of the connectives, but also because
detour reduction is not confluent.

This is very interesting solid work, fitting very well with the
Types conference and contributing to our understanding of the
general nature of constructive connectives and reduction of
constructive proofs.

As the abstract does not give a general presentation of the method,
for arbitrary connectives, one is left wondering whether the approach
of the author really works in full generality. I would like to
see that explained in the talk.



----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 35
TITLE: On Model-Theoretic Strong Normalization for Truth-Table Natural Deduction
AUTHORS: Andreas Abel

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:

This abstract is about a paper accepted for the TYPES'20
proceedings. Therefore, the contents has already been fully validated
for TYPES.

A question that arises when reading this abstract is whether the
proposed model-theoretic proof works for any truth-table: the text
only illustrates the case of implication.

A second question is about natural deduction. Geuvers and co-authors
always speak about "natural deduction" and their inference rules have
the form of generalized introduction/elimination rules. If we accept
that such generalized rules are still natural deduction rules, we
understand the terminology. But here, the author speaks of "natural
deduction in spine form", and the adopted "elimination" rule is the
left introduction rule. Now left introduction and the spine form is
about sequent calculus (cf Herbelin and Cervesato-Pfenning). Is it so
unimportant, the precision in the terminology? Is it important for the
model-theoretic proof, the adoption of the sequent calculus format?
